What time is one expected to be present on campus?
Initial AOD work (calling in back-up, ensuring balanced patient distribution, etc) can be done remotely. Anticipate being on campus between 9AM and 4PM.

Desired workspace for AOD and frequency of rounding in ED?
Currently, there is no dedicated workspace for the AOD. Some proposed locations include the space previously occupied by the H@H team in C-pod (code 007), given proximity to the ED, or shared office with ED SW in A-pod. No specific frequency for rounding in the ED. I think checking in once in the morning and once in the afternoon would be reasonable with the intention of assisting with disposition of patients, particularly those who could be followed up in rapid succession in the outpatient setting.

Expectations for communication between consults and AOD for service transfer requests
If the MAC is contacted to transfer a patient being followed by the Medicine consult team, reach out to the consult provider to discuss appropriateness of transfer. AOD document has been updated to include general guidelines for acceptance of transfers.

Expectations/scope for future state of AOD as discharge facilitator
Initially, the idea is to help escalate clinical barriers to discharge (final consult recs, pending tests, radiology read, PT/OT eval, etc), but this is still to be determined. Other institutions have implemented different versions of this role. We'll have to figure out what works best to meet our own section and institutional goals. I think this will ultimately be a late Q2 to early Q3 addition to the AOD role, giving everyone time to assimilate into the general AOD role first

Responsibility of data capture for tracking purposes
Night 3 provider should text/email AOD regarding total number of overnight admissions, as well as any triage-related questions for holdover admissions. MACs should pass along total number of daytime admissions, ICU transfers,  and off-service transfer requests. Only AODs have access to enter information in spreadsheet.

Access to total HM census list
Everyone should have access now under "Shared Patient Lists" on Epic

Which teams are localized? What should we do in terms of localization when coming down from surge.
Starting 7/1 (when AOD role takes effect), the following teams will be localized. Please note that these teams may take patients off their localized unit in time of surge. Refer to HM surge plan for more information. When coming down from surge, we should make every effort to move patients admitted to nonlocalized teams on these units to the appropriate localized team. Russ will include message to rest of section regarding this action plan during next Section Updates meeting.
Riven 1 and 2 to VCH 14th floor
VICP to 3RW
 Riven 4 to 4RW
 Riven 5 to 5RW
Riven 6 to 6RW
Riven 7 to 7RW

Line of communication with providers on service for the day.
Currently exploring options. Looking into Microsoft Teams vs MH-Cure. For now, I have been sending group texts or emails to providers on service.

Who is responsible for calling in Riven Back-up when switching between AOD providers?
If a provider calls out in anticipation of being out the following day, they should reach out to the AOD for that same day, who should notify Riven Back-up and AOD providers for the following day.

Besides the MAC, what other ancillary staff do I need to notify when opening Census back-up or Morgan side services?
Pharmacy: Halden VanCleave (halden.z.vancleave@vumc.org) and Tate Parrott (tate.d.parrott@vumc.org)
TMO: Jamie Davis  (jamie.t.davis@vumc.org), Sarah Hutchison (sarah.a.hutchison@vumc.org), Ashley Baltes (ashley.l.baltes@vumc.org), Shannon King (shannon.e.king@vumc.org)
